[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
For millennia, people
have been fascinated with
the story of the lost
continent of Atlantis.
Why?
Is there something deep inside
us that needs to remember?
What will that recovered memory
bring to our understanding
of ourselves?
These are the questions
Douglas Kenyon addresses
in his book, the
"Ghosts of Atlantis."
Welcome.
>>J. DOUGLAS KENYON:
Thanks, Regina.
>>REGINA: Wow, you've
contributed so much
to this field.
You were the publisher of
"Atlantis Rising," for what,
nearly a quarter of a century?
>>KENYON: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Because that
was a beloved journal
to many people watching this.
>>KENYON: Well,
thank you very much.
We hoped it would be that.
>>REGINA: You make a really
good point in this book,
and you argued this
point that it's important
that we do begin putting the
pieces together and remembering.
And we're going to get
into that in a little bit
because it has created
a deep trauma that's
replaced with just a mishmash
of beliefs and thoughts
and stories that are all
over the place with academia
saying, oh, no, none
of that ever happened,
and people that are waking
up from strange dreams
and everything in between,
including those who
are in the world of archaeology
who put themselves out
on a limb.
And we know all of the names.
And we'll get into some of that.
So first of all, is it your--
do you have a belief
in reincarnation?
>>KENYON: Yes, absolutely.
That's the one thing that ties
it all together in my view.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK, thank you.
Because my thought is that
the reason it's coming up now
is because so many of us that
were there in Atlantean times
are back.
And now we want to put it
together what happened,
why did it happen, right?
>>KENYON: You're right.
I think that people can look
at their personal psychology
and understand now
that as an adult,
they're influenced by things
that happen that they did,
they thought when they were a
child, that they have forgotten.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KENYON: And then so, they--
through psychotherapy
or other processes,
they start to remember the
seeds of adult activity.
And I just think that that whole
process, which people recognize
as a valid process,
and that we need
to do to be healthy mentally,
spiritually, et cetera.
And not only that, it
has to be opened up
into a much larger
context so that we're
looking at not just what
we've done in this life,
but then we understand our life
is just a chapter to the story--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KENYON: --and not
the entire narrative.
And getting that, that's
where people kind of--
that scares people because--
>>REGINA: It does.
>>KENYON: --it takes
them to dimensions
they're not quite ready to
delve into just yet, they think.
>>REGINA: But enough people
are now writing about it.
And now even Disney has
made movies about it.
>>KENYON: Oh, it's
happening, yes.
>>REGINA: It's happening.
Atlantis is resurfacing
in our awareness.
>>KENYON: Right.
>>REGINA: And I think
according to Edgar Cayce,
it's going to even
resurface to an extent
physically in our world in
the not-too-distant future.
So, perhaps-- I mean, there
are little remnants of it still
poking out, but I
think he predicted
there would be a bit of a
rise of that mass again.
>>KENYON: True.
>>REGINA: So meanwhile,
as a metaphor,
it's rising like that
in our consciousness.
So let's go to the story
of Immanuel Velikovsky
because this has to do with
a deep, hidden mass trauma
and deep fear of
annihilation that
lives within the psyche of
almost every human being.
>>KENYON: Velikovsky was a
practicing psychoanalyst,
as well as he was an associate
of Sigmund Freud and Carl Jung.
And he became-- he was like
the original catastrophist
or the one who basically looked
at the history of the planet
in terms of the way
we got to where we are
was through sudden, massively
destructive events that
traumatized us.
And he was basically taking
what he realized from personal
or individual experiences
and applying it writ-large
for the entire--
for the entire civilization.
And it was in a
direct opposition
to the standard
orthodoxy of gradualism
or that life on
this planet, if you
wanted to understand
the way things change,
you just look at
the way it is now.
And you say, just
extend that back,
and that accounts
for everything.
The catastrophists of whom
Velikovsky was the leader was--
had the idea that that
may be true in general.
But there have been sudden
massively catastrophic events
that really accounted
for in history.
And you can't really understand
what's going on Earth,
unless you can look
at these sudden events
and understand how we were
affected by them, how we were
traumatized by them
and what we had
to do to reconstruct
ourselves in the aftermath.
>>REGINA: And he literally
pointed to Atlantis, didn't he?
>>KENYON: I don't think
he talked about Atlantis
specifically because
he was more, in fact--
>>REGINA: Was it more--
>>KENYON: He was more--
he was more in the
orthodox school of history,
but he talked about--
well, he talked about events in
the last 2,000 or 3,000 years--
since the Bronze Age.
And so what you have to
do is make the connection
between the theory that he
was presenting or the idea,
and you can apply it
on a larger scale.
And that's what I believe
is the missing piece.
I don't think you'll find
it. a lot of catastrophists
are all looking at more
recent types of events.
But they can see that the--
they can see that in the works.
They can see how something
like that happened.
But I think, you need to look
at it in really big terms.
And you see it, the whole
ending of the last Ice Age,
as the event--
and everything that
transpired around that,
as being the trauma that left us
basically back in the Stone Age.
>>REGINA: Yes, and so we'll
go to Atlantis in a moment.
But when you think about
catastrophe, catastrophe
depending on where
you are in the world,
it's playing out
around us all the time.
>>KENYON: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So
humankind is terrified
when we think of the fact that
a meteorite could have impacted
Earth, and it could have
created such a sudden shift
in our condition that whole
populations disappeared,
that earth moved,
that water moved,
and huge percentage of
humanity was wiped out.
But if you just now take
it to a smaller scale,
try living in Pakistan.
My God, it's a catastrophe
there on a regular basis.
But it's just--
I'm saying, if we
extend it out, we've
all lived through these
catastrophes multiple times--
>>KENYON: Right.
>>REGINA: --these Earth changes.
And I think it's
important to say,
there's no-- you can't
stuff a soul in a body.
There is no soul
that is incarnated
that's been forced to
incarnate at any time.
It has to be a
collaboration between you
and that little vehicle.
And you know the times
you're being born into.
And so we've all
agreed when we--
those of us who've been
present for catastrophe,
for some reason, to incarnate
at that pivotal time in history.
>>KENYON: Well, you've
got debts to pay.
You've got obligations--
>>REGINA: Got obligations.
>>KENYON: --that you
can't move forward
until you balance the scales.
And that's what the human
enterprise is all about,
in my view.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KENYON: And we can, again, I
think, many of our experiences
which are on the personal
level, are really
messages from the universe, if
you will, telling us, you see,
this is the way it works.
You know, you're in kindergarten
now, but that's just the--
that's just the
beginning of things.
That's just the
tip of the iceberg.
>>REGINA: So let's go
back to Atlantis now,
since that's the primary
subject of your book.
And my understanding
is that Atlantis
had three separate
catastrophes, so to speak,
chunked off from the north,
the mid, down to the south.
But the only one that's
really focused on,
and that people are able to get
the geological evidence for,
is the final destruction.
And let's just set it up for
people that aren't already aware
of the timeline and the story
and the players involved to have
uncovered the evidence for
this loss of this continent--
the final loss of the
continent about 12,000--
11,600 years ago to
12,000 years ago.
>>KENYON: Well,
there's a-- you're
talking about the timeline
of the end of Atlantis.
And I think a lot of
that is speculation.
We can only guess about that.
And there are a
few people who have
had a lot of very interesting
things to say on the subject.
We've mentioned Edgar Cayce.
Others would be like
James Churchward or--
Anyway, the point is-- and I
mentioned Churchward and another
of his associate, Augustus
Le Plongeon, and so forth,
and they're basically-- and they
were talking primarily about
what was believed to be the
history of Lemuria, which was--
a civilization that
preceded Atlantis.
And it's hard to--
I mean, you're talking
about such a great span
of time between when
those places were there
and what's here now.
But I think the general
consensus among people
who look at the
unconscious and all of that
was that there was the greater--
there was a much longer period
of time for human evolution
than is generally recognized
by the mainstream.
And the idea that according to
mainstream thinking, we were--
as recently as 5,000 years ago,
we were still basically not
that far out of the Stone Age.
And when you introduce the
idea, no, there was a--
there was a time prior
to that and way back
where we could do
a lot of things
that we've forgotten how to do.
And that's the important
thing, to be able to see that--
see things in that--
from that perspective so
that you get the big picture.
Again, that's what we're
arguing for is the big picture,
and I feel that the
orthodox view has
us looking through a keyhole--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KENYON: [CHUCKLES]
They're trying to see what
all is out there, instead
of getting something.
>>REGINA: But then we have
Graham Hancock, John Anthony--
the late John Anthony
West, wonderfully brave.
We have Robert Schoch.
I mean, these people--
Robert Schoch has to deal
with having ten years stripped
by just speaking any of
these things out loud.
Yet, he has said some amazing--
he's made some amazing
contributions as
to the age of some
of these artifacts,
particularly in Egypt.
And so then, when Gobekli Tepe
started rising to our awareness,
we start understanding there
were very sophisticated cultures
in the past.
>>KENYON: Right.
And I think there are a
number of places that are just
starting to be investigated.
I'm thinking about
not only Gobekli Tepe,
but just recently,
there was a lot
of news about Gunung
Padang in Indonesia.
And there's pretty
solid evidence
that there's some kind of a
period-- a pyramid in this one
area, in particular.
And they're talking
like 27,000 years.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KENYON: And so, that
defeats the orthodox paradigm
right there.
>>REGINA: Well, yes.
And supposedly, Robert
Schoch casually--
well, John Anthony West told me,
it's at least 35,000 years old,
the Great Pyramid.
That was his opinion.
>>KENYON: Right.
>>REGINA: Robert Schoch
privately said to someone--
I'm sorry.
I hoping I'm not
getting him in trouble,
that when he first
saw the pyramid,
he felt it was closer
to 200,000 years old.
In Hermetic studies,
they peg it around 85,000
to 90,000 years old.
>>KENYON: Right.
>>REGINA: So what's
going on here, right?
And then Atlantis,
of course, was
noted to have had its
own pyramidal structures.
That seems to be a
primary structure
around the planet for
some transformative
or spiritual processes.
>>KENYON: Well, they want to
give credit now for the Great
Pyramids, say, to the
Pharaoh Khufu, which he was--
takes us back about
4,000 or 5,000 years.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>KENYON: And the idea is,
when you look at it closely,
it's absurd because what
civilization could have created
something like that
because it is so complex
and has so many different
aspects that in terms
of its geometry, in terms of
its-- the awareness that it
demonstrates, in terms of the
proportions of the planet,
and so forth.
And so I think it's a
mystery that is not--
there's no explanation.
>>REGINA: No.
And they're all over the
planet, and they're underground.
The sands of time
are covering a lot
of these amazing pyramidal
structures all over this planet.
They're just getting to
the point, technologically,
to be able to identify them
through earth-penetrating radar.
I mean, this is a whole new
area, what they're finding.
And of course, they've got to
be pretty tight-lipped about it
because as soon as the
information comes out,
the machine starts
to immediately try
to discredit them.
>>KENYON: Yeah, if you start to
suggest that there was-- again,
it's the same issue.
If you're suggesting that there
was a prior civilization that
was destroyed, you immediately
run into opposition,
tremendous opposition to that.
>>REGINA: We're going to get to
that in a minute about the ways
in which they do it
and why because this
is beyond my
comprehension that people
can try to quash and control
such essential stories
about our own history.
I don't get how academia can
get away with that and has,
for so long, actually, but--
So, my understanding--
so, if we go back to-- you
were talking about Churchward.
We're talking about Cayce.
We're talking about Lemuria.
So our understanding is
Lemuria was in the Pacific.
Atlantis was in the
Atlantic, large continents
that ultimately sunk.
But my understanding
is that Lemuria was--
the technology was not so
much of a physical nature
as what is said to have
existed in Atlantis,
but more spiritual technology.
>>KENYON: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: Beings
that might have even
been phased in at a slightly
different density than what
we are now.
Can you talk about that
a little bit, and then
we'll set up Atlantis?
>>KENYON: Well,
again, that would be--
I'm not-- I can't advocate
for any particular--
>>REGINA: I know--
>>KENYON: --position on that.
>>REGINA: But you write
on all different things.
>>KENYON: But we did--
I think Atlantis--
excuse me, Lemuria
is generally
believed among those
who follow these kinds
of things to have been
much more of a mother culture.
And that Atlantis was its--
was a descendant of it.
And that those who--
and Atlantis was more
of a kind of what you
might call a left brain world.
And Lemuria was more of a--
>>REGINA: Right brain.
>>KENYON: --more of a
right brain kind of thing.
And by that, I mean,
more intuitive,
not so much a linear sequence,
which is what Atlantis was
contributed-- considered to
be much more of a mechanical--
>>REGINA: Technologically.
>>KENYON:
--technologically advanced.
>>REGINA: Certainly,
toward the end,
my understanding of
it is the various--
I've read different
books than you read.
And we read some
that are the same,
is that Lemuria actually
was concurrent at one point
with the beginning of Atlantis.
And Atlantis was concurrent
with Egypt because--
>>KENYON: Right.
>>REGINA: --the early
Egyptian culture,
according to the Hermetics, goes
back a couple 100,000 years.
>>KENYON: Sure.
>>REGINA: So we're talking
about overlap between these.
And then it's funny, if we
think about it now, it's--
and it does-- it
has been represented
and even the Bible
and some Vedic texts
that there's always
been air travel.
There's always been
a sophisticated form
of air travel.
Whether it's from
off-planet or on-planet,
it seems air travel
has always existed.
So moving populations
around doesn't
have to be a big mystery if we
accept technology has probably
always been on Earth.
>>KENYON: Yeah,
it's hard to just--
the technological
story-- there's
a lot of different
variations on that.
And for example, I think that
the idea that the Neanderthals,
for example, were really
a more of an intuitive--
>>REGINA: More Lemurian.
>>KENYON: --type
of thing, and they
go back probably further
than modern humans.
And that probably,
there may have
been some inheritance there
between from Neanderthals
to modern humans.
And cultures that existed
prior to the Ice Age
and simultaneously with the
Ice Age, all of these things
are possible.
And I think that-- and
there's evidence to suggest--
>>REGINA: Neanderthals and the
Denisovans supposedly mated--
>>KENYON: Denisovans, yes.
>>REGINA: --Denisovans
mated, right?
>>KENYON: There's certainly
a strong evidence for some.
And I was fond of--
talked a lot in the magazine
about Denisova Cave,
which is this cave in
Siberia, where they found
clear examples of jewelry which
had been obviously drilled
by some kind of technology--
>>REGINA: Sophisticated.
>>KENYON: --that was
capable of really--
>>REGINA: Fine work.
>>KENYON: --high speed,
very fine drilling.
And there's-- so the full story
is totally obscure right now.
>>REGINA: Well, one thing we
know is a lot more happened than
our academic institutions are--
>>KENYON: That's for sure.
>>REGINA: --letting us onto.
I mean, there are
dolmens and caves
all over the planet
that house people.
Some of them are
extraordinarily large.
Some are extraordinarily
exotic, some extraordinarily
well-dressed that have
actually been unearthed.
You don't read that in
any of the books, right?
>>KENYON: Right.
>>REGINA: And so we just have
to now say, wait a minute,
I think the big question is,
why is it important to remember
that we've had these very
iterations of us in the past
that have been very advanced?
And then we get knocked down.
We have to find our way
back again, over and over.
And I had a personal
experience of that.
And then, why the field of
those who control information
is so afraid of humanity
knowing these things?
So-- yeah.
>>KENYON: It's a narrative.
People seeking to retain
a particular narrative
in the story that
according to their story,
they end up in charge.
And so the suggestion
that maybe there
was some other scenario
that occurred where
maybe somebody
else was in charge,
or another breed, another group,
another tribe was in charge.
And so that's the, I
think, the core of it.
And if you take it, it's
another kind of tribal warfare,
is basically what
you're talking about.
>>REGINA: So it's time to
get rid of tribal warfare.
It's so primitive.
Warfare in general is so--
>>KENYON: The most primitive.
>>REGINA: --is so primitive.
So I'll tell you a
little experience
I had because this goes directly
into what we're talking about,
and the end part
was interesting.
So the late wonderful
Dolores Cannon
did a regression on me in 20--
2000, actually, 2000 or 2001.
And I was looking--
I was just a little
blue and wondering what
was impinging upon my heart.
So I was expecting
something quite simple.
And boom, I'm somewhere
else entirely.
And-- kind of try to
get my bearings a bit
and thought, where
in the heck am I?
And it turned out it was in
a place-- it was in Atlantis.
And it was on the final day
of one of the destructions.
I believe it was the middle,
not the first destruction.
It was not the last destruction.
And it was a mix
because at that time,
I was a woman in one of the
temples that worked with--
our lifespans were very
long, by the way, over 700.
Because I remember,
she asked me my age.
I said, I'm 232.
And I was quite young.
I mean, I looked like I
was 35 years old or so.
But it just came out,
and I was comfortable.
I said, no, the elder
ones are over there.
They only come for
special things.
It's our job right now.
We have the energy.
And we would stand.
We could stand for 20 hours
at a time, focused minds.
But our job at that time was
working with the disturbed earth
energy that was starting to--
would become unstable.
And everyone psychically knew
this thing is going to blow.
Is there anything we
can do to stop this?
Because the technology was
so advanced physically,
but also spiritually and
mentally and agriculturally.
It was such a fine, fine
technology of the day
that no one wanted it lost.
So anyway, we go through this.
It's a very sobering--
somber moment.
And she said, you can move
beyond the actual event
because it was the end.
And we were just standing
quietly in a circle.
The game was lost.
So we go beyond it.
And I told her, as she
said, don't go through it,
it's too traumatizing.
So I went just beyond
it, and it was awful.
I mean, it was like bubbling
waters and fish belly up.
And everything was golden
and brown and burnt.
And we won't go into
the rest of how.
We were kind of blaming the
guys that were using technology.
It was-- they were just trying
to help with technology.
But the interesting thing
was, in the near atmosphere,
there were these spaceships
from other places
that were trying
to help as well.
They were also directing
their energy into the Earth.
Everyone was trying to soothe
it, and it didn't work.
In fact, it disturbed it
even more, and it all blew.
And you could see
there were people
who were taken out by craft
so that the knowledge would
be preserved and
deposited elsewhere.
Others like me went down
with the ship and were
traumatized deeply.
But the thing I said to
her was, we are going
to sleep for a very long time.
What we've just
lost is unbearable.
And if we remember
this, we will not
choose to incarnate
back to Earth.
We have to start over again.
And this was-- she didn't
understand initially what I was
saying, and she finally
did, that that was--
there was a need for amnesia
just to keep moving, get earth
to move back forward again.
>>KENYON: Yeah, well, amnesia
is a process of self-defense.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KENYON: It's basically--
and the reason people-- it
gets to your point about the
people rejecting the storyline
that we're talking about.
And they're sticking to
their-- they're sticking to--
they've got their
story, and they're
sticking to it because
without it, they
feel they're losing their
sense of self or their--
>>REGINA: They feel vulnerable.
>>KENYON: Absolutely,
and very vulnerable.
And it's terrifying.
>>REGINA: Well, every culture
has their Great Flood myth.
Virtually, every culture on the
planet has the Great Flood myth.
>>KENYON: Right.
>>REGINA: Now, I
mean, so we know--
we've accepted that.
>>KENYON: Right.
>>REGINA: Why not look
a little further back
and accept that this
wasn't a one-off event?
>>KENYON: Well, we
were talking about why
the self-protection
of the amnesia
is like, as you deny what might
have happened, you basically
protect yourself so
that you can recover,
that you can regain
your equilibrium.
And that process
becomes a habit.
>>REGINA: It does.
I mean, it had
purpose at the time.
>>KENYON: That's right.
>>REGINA: And I understood
when I was looking at it,
at the destruction, I said,
we've lost everything.
>>KENYON: Right.
>>REGINA: It made
sense if we were
going to keep incarnating on
Earth to forget about that.
>>KENYON: Well, the breaking
out of it is, that's--
it's coming out of the Ice Age.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KENYON: It's like the deluge.
And as the record starts
to come up, remember,
it's a record of destruction.
And you basically bring
it up by re-enacting it.
And dramatic change
requires a dramatic episode.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KENYON: And the
dramatic episode--
and this, of course,
is what people sense
and what people fear.
And they realize-- and
the question is, can they
go through that again?
And can they go through
it and recover and move on
with their life, or do they have
to go through that again and go
down again, as you
put it, with the ship?
And that's an
unanswered question.
And frankly, this
gets to another point.
I know you-- we haven't
mentioned it yet,
but it's relative to this point.
And that is the "Dweller on
the Threshold," which is the--
you might say-- and we talk
about this in the book.
And we mentioned this as you
summon the demon, so to speak,
or all of the fear becomes a--
it coalesces as a--
>>REGINA: Almost
like an egregore.
>>KENYON: --personality.
>>REGINA: As an
egregore of sorts.
>>KENYON: Well, it's--
>>REGINA: Yes, we've created it.
>>KENYON: Exactly, it becomes.
And basically, this is something
you have to wrestle with.
And this is something you have
to defeat because basically, you
have to recover the
energy that it's claiming.
And the energy, that is the
life energy or the life force.
That's your force, your life.
And it's all claimed by
this entity or this demon.
And that, basically,
it's not going
to let go of that
without a fight.
And what we need to do
is recognize that a lot
of the forces abroad in the
world this day are really
aspects of this process on
a cosmic scale, or it's--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KENYON: It's on the scale--
it's on the scale of the planet
as a whole so that you have
a lot of the politics--
say, international politics,
which is, as people observe,
that it's a repetition--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KENYON: --of
previous episodes where
the same thing happened before.
Well, that's an example
of playing it out
because until you resolve it,
you're compelled to re-enact it.
>>REGINA: So that
gets us to the point
of trying to hang on to
the things we believe
will make us safe
and will save us
and will compromise ourselves.
And when you're looking at
politics around the world,
often cultures, will
give way to quote,
"strong men," who are going to
become their patriarchal figure
and save them from
all the threats that
are happening in the world.
Instead of
understanding which is--
this is what we're being
invited to do now, I believe--
>>KENYON: Right.
>>REGINA: --is to understand
we are part of waves of cosmic
and Gaia herself, earthly,
letting go and rebirthing.
>>KENYON: Well, you have
to take responsibility
for your own sowings.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KENYON: Otherwise, you'll
continue to reap the whirlwind,
if I can paraphrase.
That's the predicament of
civilization as a whole.
Manly Palmer Hall,
one of my favorites,
talked about this
a lot in connection
with this idea of the "Dweller
on the Threshold," namely,
that until you get past
this, you're stuck, and--
>>REGINA: You're stuck
and haunted by it.
>>KENYON: You keep
going round and round.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KENYON: And you
need catharsis.
You need the purging that comes.
It's not necessarily to
re-enact in a physical terms.
But that will
happen to you if you
can't figure out a better way.
And that's why
I'm a big believer
in the principle of drama.
And what I'm talking about
there is the idea of theater.
And that theater itself, which
is leftover from the mystery
schools of ancient
times, basically
had their rituals by which
the soul could basically
come to grips with its
mistakes and resolve them
and could experience catharsis.
I mean, that's the
core of tragic drama.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KENYON: And that's why when
you can successfully do this,
you can experience
metamorphosis--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>KENYON: --or you
can go through.
And that's what we
need to do before we
can move on or move up or
move on to the next level.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And we're all feeling
this incredible pressure--
cosmic pressure building up
to force humanity to change.
I don't think anyone
watching this can deny--
there's not a pressure
building up for change now.
And to understand
the graciousness--
even in our own bodies
on a cellular level,
in order to stay
healthy, our old cells
have to die so new
cells can be born.
>>KENYON: Right.
>>REGINA: Same thing
with the Earth.
Parts of her have to shake
whatever landmasses off,
blow a little through
volcanoes here and there.
Let her live what
she has to live.
She's our host.
We've agreed to live in
companionship with her movement.
>>KENYON: And it's
not just a matter--
it's not just a matter
of blowing off steam,
which is one level of it.
You can see that.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
it's transformation.
>>KENYON: That's necessary.
You have to develop
a new narrative.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KENYON: One that is in harmony
with the higher purpose that--
and the soul can sense
whether or not it's being--
and you see, there's
this war of narratives
where you have all these
different stories that
are being presented
and people get
to choose which one
they're interested in
or which one they
find acceptable.
Some, they find pleasing.
I mean, people are
pleased by narratives
which they find flattering--
>>REGINA: Of course.
>>KENYON: --or which basically
pat them on the back,
and so forth.
And then that's on one hand,
what people are looking for.
And then on the
opposite side of it,
you've got another narrative.
It says, you're a poor,
miserable, sinner,
and you're going
down with the ship.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>KENYON: So neither
one are right.
And the difference-- and putting
them together is something that
takes--
>>REGINA: Maturity?
>>KENYON: Yeah, and
it takes wisdom.
>>REGINA: Wisdom.
>>KENYON: And it takes a lot
of facing up to one's own
responsibilities and one's
failures without being
self-condemned or
going into a kind of--
some kind of
self-punishment trip.
I mean, that's where a
lot of people end up.
They end up--
>>REGINA: And that's not
what's being called for.
>>KENYON: No, no.
>>REGINA: It's simply,
to look at your life
honestly and say, where can I
contribute better, and so forth.
It's just an honest
reckoning of your own self.
>>KENYON: It's simple in
terms of-- it's simple
in terms of what is required.
But it requires a deeper
insight, and it requires--
it requires courage.
And it requires awakening
and a lot of things, which--
this is why people
resist because they're
afraid of failure.
They're afraid they'll
maybe attempt it,
and it won't succeed.
And they'll, as you say,
go down with the ship.
>>REGINA: But the fact
is this, some people
paint some stories are that
the wickedness of mankind
caused all these
Earth destructions.
I personally do
not believe that.
I believe that the Earth is
going through her process.
Our emotional fields are
intertwined with hers.
And so I think, you
can see disturbances
within the Earth's field if you
have a very disturbed and dark
emotional mass field there.
But by and large, she's also
responding to the cosmos
and the solar system.
And we're just a part of that.
We're almost a flea
on the back of it,
but still, a very important
point in consciousness.
>>KENYON: Absolutely.
Well, there's a hierarchy of
values that are involved here.
And I think that people
have to look at their--
take responsibility
for their actions
and see things without fear.
And that's not an
easy thing to do.
One of the things
that is part of this
is like, the idea of addiction.
And I mentioned
addiction as being
this attachment to something
that's destructive.
>>REGINA: But temporarily makes
you feel, quote, "better."
>>KENYON: That's right.
You get a payoff.
You get a temporary-- and then
discarding that may very well
lead to withdrawal
or detoxification,
which basically--
and that's no fun.
>>REGINA: No.
>>KENYON: And that's what
people are afraid of.
But the process of
approaching that,
just like healing in general,
is something that has to be--
it has to be guided
from a higher level.
And it can be from an
individual's own higher self,
and then it can be guided by
the enlightened elder brothers
and sisters that we rely on.
And you have to
take responsibility.
And that means
very well taking--
dealing with your
mistakes, bad choices.
And you can't escape that.
>>REGINA: But I think
compassion is huge,
to have compassion
for self and others,
because we're all bumping
through life, more or less
blindfolded, because of
this amnesia that we've
been operating under.
>>KENYON: I agree.
>>REGINA: So under a
lot of false principles
that have been foisted upon us.
And before we go, I
really want to get down
to the mechanisms that
foist this stuff on us
and shut the voices down because
you wrote about it in your book.
One of them is
called astroturfing
by journalist Sharyl Attkisson.
Can you tell us one
way in which when
really interesting
discoveries are made
is they start being shut down
immediately by our global press?
>>KENYON: Well, you've
got the economy.
And you basically have
people trying to make a buck
or trying to basically--
and people have
invested in the economy,
all of their vision
of what's going on.
And basically-- and they boil
everything down to economic
issues, getting ahead, getting--
>>REGINA: It's just
a belief system.
>>KENYON: But it's
part of the addiction
that I was talking about.
It's addiction to material
forms, and that's part of what--
I was trying to get that
across into because you
find materialism on
the left and the right.
Both of them are using.
So it's not a question
of left versus right.
It's easy to fall into that trap
of trying to identify all good
as left and all bad as
right or vice-versa.
And that's what a
lot of people do.
And that's where you get such
intense emotion that people
bring to bear on these topics.
And the reason they
don't make much progress
is because they want to
be able to point a finger.
They want to be able
to blame somebody.
>>REGINA: Well, meaning
you never progressed
to the more mature story.
>>KENYON: Right, and that's what
taking personal responsibility
is the way you get around.
You don't waste
your time on blame.
And I think that's
what you're driving at.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KENYON: And blame,
of course, I mean,
this idea of responsibility
has many aspects.
And it takes many different
forms and so forth.
But I think that that's
what we're looking at.
You mentioned the
astroturfing idea.
There, again, its
elaborate structures
that are developed to basically
carry out the same agenda we're
talking about.
>>REGINA: And it all
happens through the media.
>>KENYON: Yeah, media's the
amplifier and the conductor.
>>REGINA: Amplifier
through education,
through financial
systems, all of it,
but media is the amplifier.
And even, like, Wikipedia, you
gave some examples in there.
And some of us know
about Rupert Sheldrake,
but "TED Talks,"
Wikipedia, other sources,
how they have gatekeepers
that will very quickly come
in and tear down anything
that suggests there's a larger
picture beyond the mainstream--
>>KENYON: Because they know
full well that what we're saying
is true.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KENYON: And basically,
they're out to manipulate
the narrative--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KENYON: --because
they recognize
their own position is dependent
upon a certain narrative.
And if that narrative
is broken down,
they're going to lose
their clout, and so forth.
And they've got
their antenna up.
They're not--
>>REGINA: Oh, they have
watchdogs everywhere
to shut it down.
>>KENYON: They're watching it.
Then they're ready to--
they're ready to slam the--
nipping the bud.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KENYON: Strangling the cradle,
anything that's a threat--
>>REGINA: To the
mainstream narrative.
>>KENYON: --to the
mainstream narrative, right.
>>REGINA: So in the
end, after all of this,
after all of the
studies you-- studying
you've done and research
throughout your lifetime and all
of the wonders around the
planet that the mainstream--
people that only pay
attention to mainstream
will never even hear
about in this lifetime,
what would your overarching
message be to everyone?
>>KENYON: Wake up.
>>REGINA: Yeah, OK, well, that's
a-- that pretty much hits it.
I agree with you.
Wake up.
>>KENYON: We're sleepwalking.
>>REGINA: It's not-- it's
OK to most people are good.
It's OK to take
personal responsibility.
We've all screwed up.
We're human.
But if we understand
that, generally speaking,
humanity is good.
It's not so scary
to look at whatever
our faults may be and see
if we can refine ourselves
a little bit.
>>KENYON: There's virtue there.
>>REGINA: Yes, a lot
of virtue in humanity.
And we need to remember that.
We are good at heart.
So let's take a
look and remember.
>>KENYON: I agree.
>>REGINA: Yeah?
OK.
"Ghosts of Atlantis"
takes the reader
through every kind
of historical event
through geological and
anthropological evidence,
of course, all being
denied by mainstream media
and academics, a good compendium
of our unacknowledged history.
Until next time.
Thank you for joining
us here on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]